tonight the culmination of a six-month
long joint investigation between this
program and the Sydney Morning Herald
and aged newspapers we reveal a
corporate scandal involving Australia's
largest casino operator crown which
until recently was the pride and joy of
reclusive billionaire James Packer now
though he's offloading his stake in
crown with its reputation tarnished
after 19 of its employees were jailed
for breaking gambling laws in China but
as you'll see the company only has
itself to blame we've obtained tens of
thousands of documents from inside
Crown's corporate headquarters they show
a lust for profits drove an arrogant
culture where almost anything including
courting people with ties to the
criminal underworld was not only allowed
but encouraged investigative reporter
Nick McKenzie explains I think I'm the
luckiest person in Australia
James Packer was certainly dealt a great
hand in life and he played it well
[Music]
betting billions on the company he
inherited from his father he turned
crown casino into one of the world's
gambling jewels but as any punter knows
winning is addictive and Packer wanted
more ladies and gentlemen I've made many
mistakes in my life but investing in
China is not one of them packer set out
to conquer the high-roller market by
luring Chinese VIP gamblers to our
shores and he made no apologies for his
bold plan well I'm really sick of people
looking at me as though our business is
some sort of sinful business I am hugely
proud of our business but what Packer
didn't know was that others in the
company executing his vision would take
crown down a very dangerous path there's
all about making money yes even though
they were breaking the law in China mmm
I don't think they were
[Music]
this is the story that crown casino does
not want you to see and that's because
of one of the largest leaks ever of
corporate data to Australian media 60
minutes the age in The Sydney Morning
Herald have obtained tens of thousands
of crowns internal files and documents
from sources close to crowns Melbourne
headquarters it's a jacket of highly
sensitive and damaging information as
not only reveals the secret inner
workings of Australia's biggest casino
but also its ties to Chinese crime
bosses and Communist Party figures these
people are well-funded but some of them
are quite dangerous need fear for your
life are not suicidal at the stage it
involves the most powerful drug
syndicate in the world bundles of cash
coming out of a plastic bag I look at
this and there are neon lights flashing
money laundering and sex trafficking
rings you know that these women were
being held there against their will but
most disturbing of all our investigation
proves how Crown's
hunger for profits endangered its own
people and exposed Australia's national
security to grave risks well who was
coming on these flights my immediate
reaction was to enhance risk crowns only
concern was getting caught
was here in Hong Kong that crown
launched its ambitious strategy to crack
the Chinese high-roller market but
things went terribly wrong and to find
out why we're going to meet a crown
whistleblower who's taking a massive
risk in speaking out two years ago
Jenny Jung was told to keep her mouth
shut resort stars detained in China on
alleged gambling crimes to never speak
of the events that led to her and 18 of
her colleagues being locked up in a
Chinese Jail the ground workers have
already spent all the eight months in
prison do you think crown exposed its
Chinese staff to danger yes money is way
more important than a staff but in a
world where cash is king Jenny's silence
could not be bought not even by
Australia's most powerful gambling
empire by speaking out now she risks her
personal safety but as crowns Keeper of
Secrets
Jenny believes Australians deserve to
know the truth to me it's like I don't
hate but I feel upset with this number
one you know like biggest Hotel Casino
in Australia and are they doing the
right thing or are they doing the
goosing from Chinese housewife to a
prisoner of China's infamous detention
system Jenny's story is terrifying
but it began innocently enough in April
2011 when she landed a job with crown
casino has its administrator in Shanghai
did you like your job
mmm it's different world as I seen it's
completely different kind of job it's
like wow wow world why are our world cuz
you never seem like so many wealthy
people the first thing you need to know
in this complex chain of events is
simple
both gambling and promoting gambling is
illegal in mainland China the law seems
clear yet crown thought it could
sidestep it by pretending to lure
wealthy Chinese gamblers not to its
casinos
but to its luxurious Australian hotels
hotels that just happen to have high
roller rooms attached to them Gaming
analyst Ben Lee says he always suspected
crown was secretly promoting gambling my
suspicions proven by their internal
documents the facade may have been bed
of marketing a resort but I think
anybody can see through that facade
quite easily and very very quickly they
were not there to market a golf course
or the restaurants in in Melbourne there
were there to market the game activities
crown says it was never promoting
gambling in China was that a lie yes it
was like
Jenny became a trusted player in the
secretive and increasingly risky
operation crown had set up across
mainland China it was illegal but it was
also lucrative rich Chinese enticed to
crowns lavish Australian resorts were
losing bucket loads of money in its
casinos how much money are we talking
about some customers losing like maybe
like 10 million in like 15 20 minutes
losing ten million in 15 minutes yeah
which is I was surprised about what kind
of job undertaken big losses were great
news for crown and senior managers kept
pushing their Chinese staff to promote
gambling to more and more groups of
wealthy punters it was an order that put
the entire team in grave danger
here the only casino operator that I
know of who has open marketing offices
in China nobody else has why was that so
dangerous on the mainland when you open
marketing offices in China you are
exposing yourself and for Westerner to
think that you know they can get away
with what they've done it's absolute
arrogance and hubris
selling fast and selling hard was the
crown way as our mountain of leaked data
reveals fell to the end fight every
battle indoctrinated in a wolf of
wallstreet sales culture staff were told
to offer big gamblers big favors for
punting at its Australian casinos high
rollers got gold iPads Hermes scoffs and
Daniel cufflinks even free gambling cash
known as lucky money and free of charge
private jet lights the more money they
gambled the more gifts they received
assist with immigration and kids school
assist with property investment
increased credit line and the crown
sales staff weren't forgotten either
they got huge bonuses for netting the
big whales we have an opportunity to
destroy the competition but they were
also punished if they fail to reel them
in outwit out hustle our competition
keep up the intensity to crush our goals
we need to keep the pressure on if
people is not really good just let them
go you get sacked if you're not selling
mm-hmm so I'm the one hand staff I'm
thinking geez we're breaking the law
here in China for crown but on the other
hand Crown's paying them big bonuses yes
it's a tough road to walk if you had
money for your family you taking the
risk to doing this job and you don't
know what happened the next day
what could happen to Jenny and her
colleagues by doing what crown demanded
of them became obvious in mid-2015
when Chinese police swooped on the staff
of a Korean casino the message it sent
should have been loud and clear for
crown in China my experiences the
Chinese government often sends a warning
the pebble has dropped in the in the
water the riffles go out and if you had
tuned in you can see that something has
changed
Steve Vickers is the former head of the
Royal Hong Kong police criminal
Intelligence Bureau he says the arrest
of 13 Korean casino workers showed just
how serious President Xi Jingping was
about cracking down on gambling
promotion which was the unlawful
activity at the very heart of crown
secretive China operation to me that's a
wake up call that would be oops things
are you know things have happened I mean
a bunch of Korean casino operators were
arrested in broad daylight isn't that
one hell of a wake up call
that's a big rap on knuckles from the
firm from the Chinese government but
it's difficult to stop momentum
sometimes after the Koreans were
arrested at the airport did crown slow
down its recruitment as promotion of
gambling in China no even though another
casino had come unstuck crown kept
selling I don't think they worried but
Crown's internal email show it was
becoming worried but rather than down
tools executives devised other plans to
circumvent the Chinese gambling laws
staff were told to be more under the
radar to meet VIP gamblers in smaller
groups we will be applying for Hong Kong
Singapore work permits for all of our
China staff and to obtain foreign travel
documents so it looked like they weren't
even working in China this is purely a
precautionary measure that will allow
you to say that you work out of an
overseas location
and are on business travel in China
Jenny saw it for what it was and was
scared we feel like we can be arrested
any time because we are doing the same
kind of business what did you mention to
the big crowd managers we do talk to our
management the head management and
saying like this is a little bit
dangerous for us and the company told us
we are safe and we are not doing the
illegal thing so crown said it's gonna
be okay
yes did you believe them hmm
we don't everybody feels really nervous
coming up
Jenny's uninvited visitors that's very
horrible memory to me as Chinese agents
bash down her door
I feel really helpless desperate Plus
exposing you crowns dirty secrets do you
think RAM you knew you're breaking the
law that's next on 60 minutes
[Music]
Jenny Jung never imagined she'd end up a
convicted criminals and the spent time
in prison all thanks to her bosses at
Crown Casino a world away in Australia I
feel like they need to feel guilty not
myself do you think Australians know the
full story about Crown
I think they know part of it but not all
of it for us it's never gonna forget in
our life
you're never gonna wipe it up yeah it
was 2016 and crown thought it had beaten
strict laws which banned the promotion
of gambling on the Chinese mainland it's
China based sales staff who are actively
trying to lure wealthy gamblers to
Australian casinos I believe as other
sales people believe that so we've been
told by our company that we're doing
we're not doing any thing in legal give
a towbar crown you were not doing
anything illegal not doing anything
illegal
was that a lie right now I realize it is
a lie that lie finally caught up with
crown and 19 of its staff on the night
of October 13 2016 it was close to
midnight and Jenny was at home getting
ready for bed when Chinese police burst
through her front door that's really
horrible memory
as Jenny watched on helplessly a team of
five police officers ripped apart her
apartment seizing her laptop phone and
work files
I feel really panic I feel really
helpless
I feel really desperate Jenny was
arrested on the spot and taken into
police custody I couldn't get any help
but I saw on my colleague which is that
night and I I feel like well this is
gonna be a big issue busts crown resort
staff detained in China on alleged
gambling crimes Jenny was held along
with 18 of her colleagues had also been
raided that night the ground workers
including three Australian national
swept up in the busts were three
Australians including one of crowns top
executives Jason O'Connor the head of
the casinos international VIP program he
was captured by police as he tried to
flee China Jason that night when we been
arrested he's tried to leave Shanghai he
got on the plane and then they caught
him on the plane he was sentenced to 10
months jail the crown the rest sent
shockwaves around the world I've been in
contact with mr. Perron they have been
reports that it's related to gambling
and the casinos evidently but beyond
that we don't have any specific details
crown feigned surprise but it was not a
shock for the company we've obtained
tens of thousands of internal crown
Records a massive leak which reveals
that before the raids Jenny and her
colleagues were actually told what to do
if Chinese police burst through their
doors make sure no company documents
materials are left in the room
do not under any circumstances give any
official office badges or pass please or
grant any official further access to the
internal office area except as permitted
by management
what did chrome tell you before you were
arrested
what did crime tell you to do if you
were arrested do not say anything
doesn't do not cooperate with the
government crown said if you're arrested
don't cooperate with the Chinese
government mm-hmm do you think crown
secretly knew I think I think they do
they do know about this I knew you were
breaking the law but they just don't
tell the staff because they want a staff
bring the money over and they keep him
working for them they were happy for the
Chinese staff to break the law if the
money was flowing over yes crown was
right to be worried about police seizing
its confidential company files as we've
discovered ourselves crowns internal
data tells an extraordinary story it
reveals just who crown was getting into
bed with as at Lord China's wealthiest
people to gamble in Australia to
understand Crown's duplicity we need to
go to Macau this is the only place in
China where you can legally have a bet
at a casino in the rest of the country
it's illegal as is any promotion of
gambling or debt collecting crown try to
work around those laws it not only used
its own staff to hook the big whales and
bring them to Australia it hired Macau
agents known as junket operators to do
its dirty business
these Junkers middlemen not only find
Chinese VIPs for crown they lure them to
Australia by arranging luxury travel and
millions in gambling credit I also do
whatever it takes to collect bad debts
it is illegal for a mainland Chinese to
bring more than a very modest amount of
money across the border what the junkets
do is they assist in capital outflow
from the mainland they assist in the
identification of punters they
facilitate the travel and their arrival
and then there's one other key issue
it's illegal to collect debts so it's
common sense you're not going to send
the Boy Scouts around to collect debts
you want to send somebody else around
and here is where it gets even murky our
former Royal Hong Kong police commander
Steve Vickers says many junket operators
are controlled by secretive and
dangerous organized crime gangs known as
triads the Triads are complex
organizations I understand what they are
they're a cancerous organization which
needs to be kicked around very hard what
is the risk the crown takes on when it
gets into bed with jackets the risk is
that they may have taken on unfortunate
business associates so the app that the
answer is both at the Australian end and
that the Asian end to understand who
you're doing business with you ant came
to name individual junkets why not I
think one needs to be very careful being
a triad member is a huge red light to me
these people are well-funded and some of
them are quite dangerous need fear for
your life if you would have well I'm
judicious in my in my comments I've
taken triads on for many times in many
years but I'm also not not suicidal at
the stage Macau is an operating hub for
the Triads and it's here they runs
certain junkets the businesses that lure
the big gamblers the whales to the
casinos and collect their debts when
things go back for years Australian
policing agencies have watched Asian
crime bosses wash their dirty money
through certain junkets then things
changed as some of those same junkets
began operating in Australia there's no
saying in the cops if you want to find
the crime you follow the money yeah
Roman quad village has spent decades
targeting international money laundering
and organized crime rings not only was
he in charge of border force before that
he was an assistant commissioner with
the Australian Federal Police in 2006 he
led a clandestine mission to this region
why are so many Australian police
organized crime investigations ending up
here in Macau is where the trays are
that's where the organized crime is it's
where the drugs are and ultimately to
close that loop this is where the money
ends up his target was a triad known as
the company which remains the most
powerful drug trafficking syndicate in
the world for more than 10 years it's
been shipping billions of dollars worth
of ice and cocaine into Australia its
biggest problem has always been getting
the dirty cash back to China but in
crown casino triad bosses found the
ideal solution casinos are cash
intensive operations there are millions
of transactions and they are a soft
touch for money laundering how perfect a
system is that for a group like the
company having a channel like casinos in
the ecosystem with the junket operators
it allows the money to be repatriated
without the currency actually physically
being moved so it's a perfect system of
moving money without actually physically
moving it coming up Breaking Bad
someone implicated
and human trafficking brothels drugs and
dirty money bundles of cash coming out
of a plastic bag crowns deep underworld
connections do you think round cares
that some of its junket operators
knowing organized crime figures the
power of the dollar and how they
threaten Australia's national security
miss underbelly of Chinese Communist
Party influence is something that we're
only just beginning to understand that's
next 60 minutes so what we're seeing
here Nick is the money end of a drug
trafficking syndicate
to the top of your screen there you'll
see a man coming down with a green and
white plastic shopping bag that contains
191 thousand dollars in dirty cash which
has been derived from drug trafficking
activities it's May 2012 and in a green
grocer in suburban Melbourne an
international money laundering operation
is underway he's just walked off screen
awaiting the arrival of Roy Moo another
member of the syndicate who is used to
transact the money laundering at Krang
Casino here's this man Rory Moo is a
licensed junket operator at Crown Casino
which pays him to lure Asian VIP
gamblers to its High Roller rooms he'll
go off screen here and and meet with the
runner from the drug syndicate but on
this day he's both a crown junkie
operator and a money launderer because
he also works for a powerful triad
syndicate called the company and you'll
see that the shopping bag has changed
hands into Roy moves position
the company is paying him from that
location
Roy appears at the crack escena cashiers
tested his task to funnel drug money to
Hong Kong via crown casinos bank
accounts its bundles of cash coming out
of a plastic bag I look at this and
there are neon lights flashing to me
this is very very clearly it's a
money-laundering activity former AFP
Assistant Commissioner Roman quad
village says Crown Casino has long been
a soft target for money laundering Roy
movie the man handing the money I ever
said the reason he didn't go to a bank
but he chose Crown Casino was it was far
easier and far fewer questions asked
what does that tell us about crowns boy
look it's far simpler in this
environment where Roy mu has an account
with crown there is money a wash through
cranker see know this is a relatively
small amount in the context of money
that moves from crown this is a drop in
the ocean when it comes to the likely
proceeds of crime drug trafficking
another crime being washed through crown
yes Nick in reality we're talking
hundreds of millions billions of dollars
of dirty money that gets laundered every
year through entities like crown at this
point you might be asking yourself why
should crown casino be blamed for the
actions of a single rogue junket
operator but this case isn't a one-off
our investigation has uncovered crown
junket after crown junket with
underworld ties and suggests crown was
either willfully blind or recklessly
indifferent a number of the entities
that crack escena are dealing with a
very clearly linked to transnational
crime entities and syndicates cracka
sino might be well justified in saying
hang on we're a casino we ain't the cops
we're not a zero how on earth are women
to know if so-and-so is to try is that
not a fair call crown is a casino
operator it is a proxy financial
services entity but when you look at the
risk profile of the individuals that
crown was dealing with and the exposure
that it has to some of the criminality
and the money laundering activity we
talked about in my view
that obligates crown to have high levels
of due diligence crowns so-called due
diligence
he's barely evident in its confidential
company files instead they reveal how
crown bent over backwards to work with
Macau's biggest junket operator Sun City
Sun City key personalities have
demonstrated links to numerous triad
societies and organized crime figures in
a secret report obtained by us one of
the world's largest bookmakers the Hong
Kong jockey club reveals its own deep
mistrust of Sun City which has always
denied any wrongdoing
intelligence sources advised that are of
interest to the Australian authorities
in relation to money laundering
activities for these reasons the Hong
Kong jockey club has black band Sun City
in contrast crown casino has rolled out
the red carpet paying Sun City tens of
millions of dollars flying into the IP
gamblers to Australia on private jets
helping Sun City get visas for them and
providing the junket with it's very own
High Roller room at crown Melbourne they
wouldn't know the background off the
channel operators and what happens when
one of your K junket partners is exposed
as a crook then you need to remove that
person from your list of partners you
can do business with the revelation that
crown is working with triad connected
junkets doesn't exactly shock gaming
analyst Ben Lee do you think crown cares
that some of its junket operators are
wanted criminals
knowing organized crime figures the
power of the dollar
no crown has also jumped into bed with
the Melbourne brothel boss with links to
alleged sex trafficking as well as
running his prostitution business
Simon pan is also one of Crown's junket
operators we're just a stone's throw
from Crown Casino there's number 39
Simon pans brothel
court files reveal he runs a notorious
prostitution business repeatedly
investigated by the federal police and
which has been implicated in organized
crime and the suspected trafficking of
women from Asia I think it's extremely
disturbing that the casino would have a
contractual relationship with someone
implicated and human trafficking anti
trafficking advocate Courtney cave says
a simple google search for reveals
federal police were forced to rescue
trafficked women from pans brothel she
says it beggars belief that cran
wouldn't know about Simon Penn what was
going on inside it's four walls there's
been more than one AFP raid resulting in
the rescue of at least two women and
this is all publicly available and it
has all the hallmarks of a human
trafficking situation but Simon Pan is
small-fry compared to crowns most
Julia's business partner an
international criminal fugitive and
Chinese Communist Party aligned figure
mate the man they call mr. Chinatown
he's been crowns most lucrative
Melbourne junket operator and he's
responsible for enticing China's biggest
whales to Melbourne and Perth to drop
millions of dollars on crowns high
roller tables it's an arrangement that's
made both him and the casino filthy rich
what do you know about mr. Chinatown I
heard that he was the single biggest
junket operator in Australia this is mr.
Chinatown's
15 million dollar mansion in Toorak
an affluent inner-city suburb of
Melbourne and this his spectacular
country estate a property where he takes
some of crowns highest rolls offering
them the chance to shoot guns and hunt
animals to find out more we went
undercover answering an advertisement
for a hunting tour come are we allowed
to shoot the wombat the whole hunting
setup here is illegal but then mr. Jonah
town doesn't care much for the law so
who is the mysterious mr. Chinatown his
real name is Tom JAL and we've uncovered
multiple Chinese court cases which
suggest a dark past he's been
investigated by Chinese authorities for
serious financial crime but he fled to
Australia before he faced justice he's
also been accused in court cases of
extortion and standover tactics and even
of arranging for acid to be thrown in a
man's face
he's always denied any wrongdoing in
Australia he works with crown casino as
well as several organizations closely
aligned with the Chinese Communist Party
[Music]
the Chinese Communist Party has never
been shy about working with people of
diverse backgrounds alex trusk ii is a
china scholar at the australian
strategic policy institute his
investigation shows mr. chinatown heads
multiple organizations in Melbourne
linked to Chinese Communist Party
activities these groups work to
influence the local Chinese community
and the Australian political system this
underbelly of Chinese Communist Party
influence is something that we're only
just beginning to understand last year
the federal government passed laws to
try to stop this Chinese government
interference but Joss Key says Mr
Chinatown's groups still operate in
secrecy he'd be able to build political
influence build networks with
politicians and then quite possibly said
that information back to Beijing through
his junkets he'd also be able to bring
large amounts of cash over borders and
also help bring personnel from China
over to Australia do you think that
crown casino should be doing business
with junket operators with alleged
criminal pasts running Communist Party
influence outfits in Australia well the
risk for crown casino is is that it's
unwittingly becoming a conduit or a
facilitator in some genuinely pernicious
and possibly even illegal activities I
think rounds being silly or crown just
doesn't care I think it doesn't care the
high stakes discovery what our police
found on a private jet the fact that the
president's cousin and Crown's junket
mr. Chinatown were on a private jet is
politically explosive
need an aussie visa just call crown
how many people did crown help get visas
to come to Australia two or two or three
hundred that's next on 60 minutes on a
winter's day in 2016
her private jet idles on the runway had
Colin Gator Airport Australian Federal
Police officers think the plane might be
smuggling dirty cash they've received a
security alert that one of the plane's
passengers is a suspected money
launderer his name is Tom jao but he's
better known as mr. Chinatown the
multi-millionaire is crown casino
royalty he's been their top junket
operator and the man crown relied on to
fly in some of China's wealthiest people
to its High Roller rooms in Australia
officers find little cash during their
search but what they do uncover is so
disturbing it's still being scrutinized
by Australia's security agencies three
years on so these are the flight records
from the flight in question we can
reveal that crown casino asked a trusted
security company run by ex-cops to work
for Chinatown
this arrangement led to a serving
Victorian police officer who was
suspended at the time to be on board
that day as mr. Chinatown's private
security
the serving cops name is Greg lever and
we can see him in this photo providing
shooting lessons at mr. Chinatown's
hunting property in country Victoria to
me it raises a very strong flag former
Border Force chief in the quad village
says law enforcement agents should not
be working for crowns high-roller
drunken agents working security for a
junket operator which is transporting
people have been flagged for money
laundering I don't think he can get a
higher red flag on that but the red
flags
keep coming also on board the private
jet that day was a passenger of intense
interest to Australia's national
security agency azo he is a man with
extraordinary connections to China's
political and business elite someone
who's known as a communist party Prince
Li his name is Ming chai and he is the
cousin none other than the President of
China Xi Jinping he's a princely he'd be
well-connected and he has a large
significant business interests as a
princeling as the cousin of Xi Jinping
what sort of connections would Ming cha
have had two elite business circles
elite political circles are late state
security circles in China
he'd have friends in the military
friends in security services friends in
business because these are the
connections that are necessary to profit
in China China expert Alex Joss Key says
Minch eyes blood ties to the president
placed him among the country's most
powerful elite and crowns internal files
obtained by us reveal even more
Ning chai is a the VIP customer of the
casino a very very important high roller
who drops millions of dollars on its
tables every year he's also a business
partner of crowns junket operators mr.
Chinatown and brothel boss Simon pan he
has an Australian passport and lists his
business address at this mansion right
here in Melbourne
how could she in ping know the most
powerful politician on the planet how
could his cousin be living in Melbourne
with an Australian passport and no one
in Australia note it's it's it's
incredible I think it just shows how
much more we have to learn about China
and the way the Chinese Communist Party
really operates the fact that the
president's cousin Ming Chow and crowns
junket mr. Chinatown were on a private
jet whose passengers are of intense
interest to Australian security and
policing agencies is politically
explosive it also begs a question how
many other crown VV IPS flying in from
overseas are of interest to Australian
authorities my job is pretty much like
her applying visa for customers before
she was arrested in late 2016
Jenny Jiang arranged private jets and
visas for crowns VIP and the VIP
customers she says high rollers were not
only given the royal treatment by crown
but the australian government as well
how many people did crown help get visas
to come to Australia every year probably
three hundred to two or three hundred
crown will writing an email to
counselors about they guaranteed that
the customer will have a nice journey to
crown and hope they could get grant a
visa for him quicker so he's the
Australian consulate was helping Crown
give paper vases as I know
internal emails reveal an extremely cozy
relationship between crown and the
Australian consulates in China the
company even had an emergency hotline to
consular staff for when they needed
quick visas where we may have hundreds
of millions of dollars of turnover at
stake in those situations the consulate
is very understanding and will do
everything they can to help us and you
were suspicious yes what do you think
was going on Kronus a big very big
company in Australia and I think
probably like they pay more tax than
anybody else and if they support a
government maybe so probably like it's
just like her back and forth between
help each other the casinos and the
entities that run them both at a company
and individual level a powerful they're
powerful companies and individuals with
deep pockets and lots of influence
before he was sacked as border force
Commissioner last year Roman quad
village experienced for himself just how
well-connected crown is in Australia's
political scene he says he was
encouraged by several members of
parliament to start fast-tracking crowns
Chinese high rollers through our borders
there was a time where some of your
senior agency figures within border
force came to you and said boss Crown's
been pushing behind the scenes what was
your reaction
there were ministers that approached the
agency approached me personally
indicating that crown and subsequently
the junket operators that worked with
crown weren't receiving a facilitated
service for private jets coming into
Australia into Perth and Melbourne and
we're seeking some arrangements which
smoothed out the processes there a
little do you mean they wanted a quick
it passage for these mysterious
sometimes people coming
private essentially being able to land
on a private jet at Melbourne Airport
received the minimal amount of
clearances put them in cars getting into
the casino and spending money
how many ministers did crown push for
this favor
I spoke to a sitting member of
parliament in addition to two to two
ministers it's very clear that there was
a powerful constituency behind the the
on treaty coming when the chips are down
lofts crowns next bit you think because
crown brings so much money into the
economy regulators prepared to turn a
blind eye to there's obvious organized
crime risks yes and Jenny counts the
cost you are a criminal of a life
destroyed while violence dumped us as
you snap two flares next on 60 minutes
it's being in a tough few years for
James Packer in business and in love has
the sparkle worn off this glittering
romance but Newsies are floating almost
half his stake in crown casino rolls the
dice and a new chapter for the
billionaire Packer has sold almost half
of his stake in casino giant crown
resorts to a Chinese entertainment
company it also signals Australia's
largest gambling empire has finally put
behind it the most traumatic event to
ever hit the company the rest of its
staff and China for breaking gambling
laws it's really hard it's not only hard
for me yeah I think it's hard for
everybody the same can't be said for
Jenny Jung and her Chinese colleagues as
though being arrested and imprisoned
wasn't traumatic enough she says she
felt abandoned by crown after being
convicted for gambling crimes you've
left crown but Crown's really not left
to you has it not really
they wanna pretending like nothing
happened
but that's not true you're a criminal by
letting its sales staff in China go
crown risked diving even deeper into the
criminal underworld of junket operators
it's casinos in Melbourne and Perth
still rely heavily on the Chinese
high-roller market and the junket
operators who entice them here are still
very much active you call the Triads a
cancer you say that it's well known that
the Triads are deeply involved in
junkets yet we have crown casino
energetically and actively trying to
work and form business partnerships with
these same junkets how can a responsible
corporate citizen be doing such activity
the best the corporate citizen can do
when you're swimming in dark waters is
at least eliminate those that are
obviously triad related or organised
crime related and try your best to to
separate the chaff from the wheat in
that that is an effort I think is worth
that's worth making former police chief
steve vickers now runs his own political
and corporate risk consultancy in hong
kong
he says casinos must have a robust
vaiting programs to wait out suspected
criminals from their business dealings
you will never eliminate all tried
involvement in junkies it's just not
possible and it's not an easy job but it
does require one four-letter word WI ll
you need the will to do that the masses
of doubt are linked to us clearly shows
crown lacks that will end according to
industry veteran Ben Lee so too does
Victoria's casino regulator Victoria
casino commissioners widely regarded as
very Pro crown very friendly to us crown
because in a regulator which is meant to
be keeping our eye on his program yes
why is it regarded as program I can't
recall any major event where crown has
been suitably penalized for infractions
off the law you think because crown
brings so much money into the economy
into the Victorian economy yes
regulators prepared to turn the blind
out there's obvious organized crime
risks yes not much chopped for the
people of Victoria who want a real
regulator No
[Music]
I mean how important will the Chinese
high-roller market be two crowns Sydney
Barangaroo vision other Chinese markets
critical in Sydney crown is building a
shiny new monument to gambling but its
success will be hugely dependent on the
work of its junkit operators this entire
crown Barangaroo complex is targeted
towards the high wealth whales in Asia
the 2.2 billion dollar casino at
Barangaroo is exclusively for high
rollers but as a former cop with decades
of experience in money laundering and
organised crime investigations Roman
Quadra League questions but the crown
can be trusted to run yet another casino
on home soil why is nobody targeting
ground to say his crown fit to hold a
gaming license look if I were to report
card I wouldn't give it a pass at this
point in time not from what I've seen
I'd know that organized crime is
prolific in Australia we are washed with
drugs and drug money crown has an
obligation to ensure that it's
anti-money laundering systems are in
place and operating correctly I think it
needs to do a hell of a lot more and it
seems crown shareholders agree they've
launched a class action against crown to
recoup the lost value of their shares
following the debacle in China they
alleged crown knew all along what they
were doing there was illegal do you
think crown Casino deserves to have a
license in Australia I don't I don't
think so they lie to the staff and we
feel like wouldnt you stand and get
dumped
by taking a job with Australia's biggest
casino company Jenny Jones life has been
forever changed everybody has the
criminal record and in China the
criminal record is a big issue but by
speaking out Jenny wants crown to be
held accountable for its actions why you
fires all of us and especially who made
it so much money for you why you dumped
us as you snapped like a huge napkin yes
James Parker didn't want to be
interviewed for this story but he told
us he had no knowledge or involvement in
the issues we've raised tonight and
despite being the major shareholder and
public face of the company
he emphasized he was not a director of
crown Resorts at the time its employees
were imprisoned in China and hadn't been
for many months before that a crown
Resorts spokesperson in Melbourne told
us the company doesn't discuss its
relationships with junket operators and
other individuals we were also told that
even though 19 of its staff pleaded
guilty and were convicted and imprisoned
in China crown didn't breach Chinese law
it seems corporate arrogance has hit a
new low Nick McKenzie will have more
revelations on this story in tomorrow's
nine newspapers including the age and
the Sydney Morning Herald